All right in this lecture we're going to be talking about classes and this is sort of stepping things
up a bit here.
I know you have worked with classes before but this is probably more advanced than anything we've worked
with before but with your background you're going to do absolutely fine.
So making classes and Codlin very straightforward.
All we do is just say class give the name of a class which is upper case.
So in this case if I want to make a dog class I just say class dog.
And just like that I now have a class which then means if I want to create a object from this class
I could say bar my dog is equal to a new dog object with parentheses.
And that's how simple it is to make an object from a class.
Now to add properties to a class you can do it sort of manually here by saying something like var name
and setting this initially equal to some sort of string and you know var age setting that maybe initially
equal to zero.
Right so then now I could say something like my dog dot name and set this equal to something that kind
of has this built in getters and setters stuff so that you can just directly manipulate the properties
there.
But this doesn't really have an initialiser that we can provide a name and an age for.
So if you would like to do that Kollin has this awesome syntax where when you make a class like a dog
class you just put parentheses after it and then you say it's going to have a property called name and
it's going to be of type String comma and it's going to have a variable property of age and it's going
to be of type.
It got to do my capital in there and just by doing this now when I want to make a new dog object you
know I've got to provide a name and there may be something like Fido and then the age of like 5.
But what it's done is it's created these properties for me and it's created this initialiser So it's
kind of a two in one package here which is really really sweet.
Now if we wanted to go back to our previous example here where we had the property showing up let me
undo till we get there.
OK.
What I can also do is if I don't want to set this equal to like an empty string or zero then I want
to make my own custom initialiser.
Well what I can do is say rather than this is equal to an empty string I'm just going to say name is
going to be of type string and age is going to be of type int.
So I have a couple.
I mean so the big air that I'm getting here is that saying hey these got to be initialized at some point
like these have to be equal to something when you create a new dog object.
So one option is to do the function so this will get called whenever a new class is created.
So I could do something where I say inside of here you know name is equal to the double quotes or I
could say age is equal to you know 85 something like that if I wanted to or against zero would be sort
of the default value.
But you know if you were going to do this you might as well just set it equal to that up at the top
there.
But if there's some more sort of complex thing that you want to do you can always do that inside of
the IT function.
Another thing that you can do is you can make constructors and you can have multiple constructors and
this is where you can actually pass in some information.
So so for example if I want to have a constructor where I'm you know taking a name which is going to
be like a string I could take an age as well.
Make sure I've got capital in there.
Do my curly brackets then I could say something like this.
Dot name is equal to name and this age is equal to age so you can see in this constructor its handling
filling in these properties.
Now the this that refers to the class object.
Whenever I use the term this way when I say this name I'm saying take this property and said it equal
to the name parameter.
That was just passed in here and because you know like name and name are the same age and age are the
same that's why you have to specify this dot when I'm doing the constructor stuff here.
But the cool thing is you can have multiple constructor so I could do a constructor where it doesn't
take in anything for example.
And I just say all right in this case name will be equal to this and age will be equal to zero.
So the awesome thing is now this line of code where I make a dog object with no parameters is totally
fine.
But I could also do one where I pass in something like Feydeau.
And the age of 8 or something like that and I can still make a new object there.
So that's kind of some of the basic information on classes.
The other thing too you can have functions inside of your class.
So if I can make a function that gives me some info about this dog I might call it something like dog
info.
I don't know.
And this is going to print out some information about the dog.
So I'm going to say.
All right.
Go ahead and say something like Fido is five years old.
And then again what we've got to do here is say all right rather than Fido we're going to do our dollar
sign name and then rather than five are going to do our dollar sign age.
So those are the basics when it comes to classes kind of some cool things that you can do.
Like I said initially where you could just kind of do the parentheses here and make your properties.
I think that's sort of the slickest way to do it in my own programming I found that's what I end up
doing most often.
So my challenge for you is very very straightforward.
I want you to add a new property called for color to the dog class and update dog info.
The function can.
So go ahead and do that.
Hit pause on the video now.
OK.
So hopefully that went well for you.
All it would take to do something like this is just say var dog fur it's going to be I could just hear
said equal to an empty string or if I wanted to follow convention I could you know just say this string
and set it up down there.
I think I'll just do this to be fun and I think I could even if I wanted to specify this one of the
class top we'll see if this actually works.
I have my doubts.
See if I say that that's a string.
Yeah it's looking like that's not going to fly all too well with.
So I always love to try new things on the fly as I'm recording you know just for fun scientific purposes.
Very wise.
I'm going to update now this dog for property inside of the dog info where it says OK Fido is six years
old and has dog fur for so if I had said dog for equal to like brown or something like that dog food
is not the right name it should be for color.
Let's go ahead and change that for color.
Now this will make a little more sense.
OK.
And has brown for white for orange for whatever it is.
What's going on here.
OK.
So congratulations you've made it through the basics of cotland this is as far as I took the cotton
for beginners but at a much much slower base.
So congrats on getting this far but I got to teach you one more thing and that's about unknowables in
cotland.
And then I'm also going to have that special lecture about cotland in Java so let's go ahead and talk
about unknowables and next on this is kind of a special bonus for you guys.
And then after that we'll talk about Kollin and job.